CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

# Contributing to Mutorials

## Getting Started

### Running locally
Necessary tools: [git](https://git-scm.com/downloads), [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en/download/)

1. `git clone https://github.com/The-Mu-Foundation/Mutorials.git`
2. `cd Mutorials`
3. `npm ci`

To run the website on your computer, run `node index.js`.

### Next Steps
Once you clone this repository, you have a couple options:
- fix bugs
- implement new features

Reference [GitHub](https://github.com/The-Mu-Foundation/Mutorials/issues) to see what we need help with. Look for issues that aren't assigned, and please **add a comment** on the issue saying that you want to work on it. This helps us because we 1. know who's working on what and 2. if the issue has already been fixed/implemented, we can let you know :).

## Mutorials Code Conventions
These are to be followed all the time 😁.

### Indentation
- Indents shall be 4 spaces, no tabs.
    - [set this as your setting on vscode](https://stackoverflow.com/a/38556923)
    - in vim:
        - put the following in your `.vimrc`.
        ```
        filetype plugin indent on
        set tabstop-4
        set shiftwidth=4
        set expandtab
        ```
        - then run `:source %`

### Naming

#### Backend
- camelCase for everything; this includes but is not limited to file names, variables (including functions), routes, etc.
    - EXCEPTION: mongoose Schema declarations follow PascalCase
    - EXCEPTION: environment variables use GIANT_SNAKE_CASE
- All admin routes (get or post) should start with `/admin/`
- All API routes should start with `/api/`

#### Frontend
- JavaScript variables follow camelCase, similar to backend
- For variables, use `const` for variables that will not be changed and use `let` for variables that will be changed. Do not use `var`.
- Following Bootstrap conventions, kebab-case will be used for classes, ids, names, and all of the other HTML tags

#### General
- Make names representative, no shorthands unless it’s obvious; i.e. "authentication"="auth" is ok, but "question"="antsy" is not; gray areas such as "Question"="Ques" should be renamed (i.e. use "Question", not "Ques")
- File and folder names should be representative and categorize things accordingly

### Comments

#### Backend
- In `index.js`, all comments should go inside functions; no floating comments
    - EXCEPTION: comments in ALL CAPS that describe either configuration or describe other large blocks of code.
- In helper files, put a comment on top of each function being exported to briefly detail what it does

#### Frontend
- All comments must be ejs comments (so that they aren't rendered into the page)
- All `.ejs` files should have a comment at the top briefly detailing what the page does and what the arguments are

#### General
- Comments NEVER go on a line that already has code in it
    - EXCEPTION: when using mongoose functions such as `findOneAndUpdate`, it is OK to use `/* */` inline comments
- Make comments succinct and ONLY about important code functionality; ex. `// connects to database` is OK, `// prints to console` is not
- If you don’t need the code, delete it, don't comment it out.

### Optimization
- Minimize number of database calls (both read and write)
    - Read queries are faster than write queries. Write your code to minimize the number of write queries.
- Reuse code when possible (i.e. if a thing is done in multiple places, see if a function is possible)
- Make algorithms elegant if you see a better way to do the same task
- Split functions that are big; each function should only do 1 task

### Structure
- All "special variables" (i.e. constants to be initialized early) are declared at the top of the file, below any imports

#### Routing
- Public routes should go in `routes/public.js`, private routes in `routes/private.js`, and admin routes in `routes/admin.js`.
- Within each file, put the POST routes first and the GET routes second.
- Routes should be in alphabetical order within these 2 categories.

### JavaScript
DISCLAIMER: these are nitpicky things which we just want to standardize
- `else` goes on same line as the closing bracket
- Opening brackets go on same line as the while/if/for/declaration/try/etc. before it
- If callbacks or `.then()`'s contain more than 1 line, make the content of the function a new line and don’t try to jam the whole thing into 1 line
- All indents should be 4 spaces, and indent correctly and reasonably
- `.then()` goes on the same line, not the next
- On frontend, prefer "double quotes". On backend, prefer 'single quotes'. On both, prefer \`format quotes\` instead of string concatenation.

One last thing: if you’re refactoring a lot of code, remember to let the rest of the team know so that we can accommodate and avoid conflicts!

Ved Thiru (PerpetualCreativity on GitHub, vulcan#0604 on Discord)

Michael Li (ML72 on GitHub, ML72#2092 on Discord)

Ethan Shen (Skipppyyy on GitHub, Skippy#0700 on Discord)

Commit message:

Format a bunch of ejs files with ejs-beautify

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

# Contributing to Mutorials

## Getting Started

### Running locally

Necessary tools: [git](https://git-scm.com/downloads), [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en/download/)

1. `git clone https://github.com/The-Mu-Foundation/Mutorials.git`
2. `cd Mutorials`
3. `npm ci`

To run the website on your computer, run `node index.js`.

### Next Steps

Once you clone this repository, you have a couple options:

- fix bugs
- implement new features

Reference [GitHub](https://github.com/The-Mu-Foundation/Mutorials/issues) to see what we need help with. Look for issues that aren't assigned, and please **add a comment** on the issue saying that you want to work on it. This helps us because we 1. know who's working on what and 2. if the issue has already been fixed/implemented, we can let you know :).

## Mutorials Code Conventions

These are to be followed all the time 😁

- [Prettier](https://prettier.io) will be used as the default formatter for all files _except_ for `.ejs` files.
  - Prettier config files are `.prettierrc` and `.prettierignore`.
  - Tip: Enable `Editor: Format on Save` in vscode to make sure files are always properly formatted
- **(Optional)** The [EJS Beautify](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=j69.ejs-beautify) vscode extension can be used to format `.ejs` files because Prettier doesn't support ejs at the moment.

### Naming

#### Backend

- camelCase for everything; this includes but is not limited to file names, variables (including functions), routes, etc.
  - EXCEPTION: mongoose Schema declarations follow PascalCase
  - EXCEPTION: environment variables use GIANT_SNAKE_CASE
- All admin routes (get or post) should start with `/admin/`
- All API routes should start with `/api/`

#### Frontend

- JavaScript variables follow camelCase, similar to backend
- For variables, use `const` for variables that will not be changed and use `let` for variables that will be changed. Do not use `var`.
- Following Bootstrap conventions, kebab-case will be used for classes, ids, names, and all of the other HTML tags

#### General

- Make names representative, no shorthands unless it’s obvious; i.e. "authentication"="auth" is ok, but "question"="antsy" is not; gray areas such as "Question"="Ques" should be renamed (i.e. use "Question", not "Ques")
- File and folder names should be representative and categorize things accordingly

### Comments

#### Backend

- In `index.js`, all comments should go inside functions; no floating comments
  - EXCEPTION: comments in ALL CAPS that describe either configuration or describe other large blocks of code.
- In helper files, put a comment on top of each function being exported to briefly detail what it does

#### Frontend

- All comments must be ejs comments (so that they aren't rendered into the page)
- All `.ejs` files should have a comment at the top briefly detailing what the page does and what the arguments are

#### General

- Comments NEVER go on a line that already has code in it
  - EXCEPTION: when using mongoose functions such as `findOneAndUpdate`, it is OK to use `/* */` inline comments
- Make comments succinct and ONLY about important code functionality; ex. `// connects to database` is OK, `// prints to console` is not
- If you don’t need the code, delete it, don't comment it out.

### Optimization

- Minimize number of database calls (both read and write)
  - Read queries are faster than write queries. Write your code to minimize the number of write queries.
- Reuse code when possible (i.e. if a thing is done in multiple places, see if a function is possible)
- Make algorithms elegant if you see a better way to do the same task
- Split functions that are big; each function should only do 1 task

### Structure

- All "special variables" (i.e. constants to be initialized early) are declared at the top of the file, below any imports

#### Routing

- Public routes should go in `routes/public.js`, private routes in `routes/private.js`, and admin routes in `routes/admin.js`.
- Within each file, put the POST routes first and the GET routes second.
- Routes should be in alphabetical order within these 2 categories.

### JavaScript

DISCLAIMER: these are nitpicky things which we just want to standardize

- `else` goes on same line as the closing bracket
- Opening brackets go on same line as the while/if/for/declaration/try/etc. before it
- If callbacks or `.then()`'s contain more than 1 line, make the content of the function a new line and don’t try to jam the whole thing into 1 line
- All indents should be 4 spaces, and indent correctly and reasonably
- `.then()` goes on the same line, not the next
- On frontend, prefer "double quotes". On backend, prefer 'single quotes'. On both, prefer \`format quotes\` instead of string concatenation.

One last thing: if you’re refactoring a lot of code, remember to let the rest of the team know so that we can accommodate and avoid conflicts!

Ved Thiru (PerpetualCreativity on GitHub, vulcan#0604 on Discord)

Michael Li (ML72 on GitHub, ML72#2092 on Discord)

Ethan Shen (Skipppyyy on GitHub, Skippy#0700 on Discord)
